All right, we're back from exercise four,
hopefully you had a good time
working with this unstable API.
Like I said, this should
hopefully be stable pretty soon.
But we're just working out what API
we really want to offer to you, and
so it's very possible
that this will change.
But I would say that it is totally
safe to use this API today,
because whatever we end up switching
to will satisfy the use case.
So it's not like we're gonna pull
the use case out from under you.
If you do ever use unstable APIs in
any library, just make sure you're
always checking every new version
bump before you just upgrade.
Because, yeah, that is unsafe,
that's why it's prefixed with unstable.
So with all of that said, our objective
in this exercise is to make it so
that our user, which is loaded right here,
is not reloaded as we're making changes
to something completely different, right?
Because it wouldn't make any sense for
the user data to be refetched just
because we submitted a deposit.
It's not like I logged out or
anything, right?
So we don't need to refetch
the user on every single request,
or every single mutation of the data.
In particular, for apps like this,
the user doesn't change, except for
when they log in or log out.
And for the bulk of the time,
the users in the application,
they're not going to be changing
their user information.
So if you've ever used the React.memo API,
it actually has a second
argument called the comparator,
which allows you to compare previous
props to the upcoming props.
And you decide whether your
component needs to rerender.
So this is an optimization that you
opt into, and when you do that,
those comparator functions
are actually kinda difficult to write.
And so I typically don't
recommend that you write those.
And yeah, React.memo is
a completely different thing.
But yeah, in the same way,
shouldReload will give you information
about where you're at currently and
where you're going so
that you can determine whether or
not you want to update or reload.
And this shouldReload runs on the client,
because that's the only
place where it's relevant.
If we're doing a server render, then yeah,
of course, we're not reloading,
we're loading all of the data.
So it's just for client transitions
going from one route to another.
Or when we've made some sort of mutation,
and
we're deciding should we load this data,
or should we reload this data?
Okay, so with that out of the way,
actually, let's just make
sure we've got our test case here,
so we can compare before and after.
So if I add an amount here, and I hit
Create, then you notice we have our POST.
This is the POST to, yeah, there's our
method POST, to actually update this.
And then when that POST is finished,
then we do some GETs for,
this is the data root.
That's kinda implementation detail stuff,
but
you can see in the query string there,
we're revalidating the data for the route.
This is for the sales route, and the
sales/invoices route, and the invoice ID.
So you can see that the root
would be the whole app.
The sales/invoices is right here,
as well as right here.
And then our invoice ID is
this invoice right here.
So each one of these routes is being
revalidated concurrently, and so
it's nice and quick.
But it is unnecessary to revalidate,
actually, most of these.
We don't need to revalidate the root,
we don't need to revalidate the sales,
or the invoices.
However, I wouldn't bother
personally adding this
optimization, really,
to any of these, honestly.
I don't think that it's that big of
an issue to just revalidate this stuff.
However, for the purposes of your
education, I think we'll at least
make it so that the root is not
revalidated, so that's the goal.
So we'll go into the root route,
and this is an export, so
we're going to export const
unstable_shouldReload, and
this is a shouldReload function.
That's the type for this.
It is a synchronous function,
cuz we're not gonna wait to
find out if we should reload.
We're going to synchronously
determine whether we should reload.
And there are a couple of things
that you get as a part of this.
You get the params, you get the previous
URL, where you're coming from, and the URL
that you're going to, and the submission
that is triggering this revalidation here.
And that's what we want to determine,
there are two cases.
When you're using this API,
you're responsible for thinking, okay,
so what are the cases where
my loader data could change?
So you look up at your loader data,
and you say, okay, so
my loader is getting the user.
What are the situations where this
getUser could return something else,
something different?
And that's why the way this API works
is it's part of the route itself,
rather than being part of some other route
that triggered the revalidation through
mutation, is because the responsibility
for whether it should revalidate
should belong to the thing that
determines what data it's getting, right?
And so we're gonna keep these two
things in the same file to say, okay,
now I'm looking at my loader,
I see all of the data that it's getting.
What are the situations where
this data could change?
That's the mental model that you
should be holding in your head.
So for us, it is when there's
a submission to log in or log out.
That's the only time that
the user will change.
Sometimes this will be a fair bit
more complicated for you, but for us,
this is actually pretty straightforward.
So we've got our submission
that is being handled.
So we can say,
if the submission.action is login,
so if we're doing a POST or
something to login route,
then we'll return true.
Otherwise, if we're submitting to the
logout route, then we should return true.
Otherwise we return false.
And of course,
you could rewrite this differently.
I think I write this a little differently,
but that's the basic idea.
So if we're submitting either to login or
logout, we should reload.
Otherwise, we don't need
to bother reloading.
And actually, just for funsies, let's
console.log the submission right here,
so we can see why that didn't
end up getting called.
So we'll console, or, yeah,
let's look at the network here first.
We'll add another submission here.
And you'll notice we have one
fewer than we had before.
So we have our POST, and
now we're revalidating the sales route and
invoice ID, but
no root route being revalidated here.
If we look at our console,
we'll see the submission there.
And the reason is the action was
to /sales/invoices, yada, yada.
If I go and log out,
then we don't get that log,
because this was an action
to that logout route.
If I go kody@remix.run, Kody loves you,
then again that was a submission
to the login route,
and so that decided to revalidate, okay?
The mental model is,
if you're going to opt into this,
think about when do I need to reload
this data, the data for this loader.
And so actually in that case,
I put this here at the bottom,
just cuz I wanted to get it out of
the way, cuz it's unstable and yucky.
Just kidding, it's not yucky, it's fine.
But it might make more sense
to colocate those two things.
Here's the loader, here's when
that loader data should change.
I think that makes sense to
put those two things together.
Sweet, yeah.
>> Just to clarify, this can be
on any route, not just the root?
>> Correct.
[LAUGH] Cool,
any other questions from chat,
or in the room, yeah.
>> Another one slightly related, but,
in a production app would
you hardcode these routes?
Or is there some sort of route manifest,
or strongly typed routes that you can
reference in a-
>> I see, yeah,
so that you're not referencing
all of this stuff.
Yeah, we could go to the login route here.
And our form, we've got a lot of forms.
We could actually just say, you know what,
I want this to post to api/login,
whatever.
So I just busted my revalidation, right?
I'm not aware of any utility that
you can use to have all these types.
But you could totally extract these,
and just make it a rule,
like we do not use just
regular strings here, yeah.
Would I do that?
I don't know, yeah,
I think it'd probably okay.
It's something like this in particular,
it's actually really easy
to see that you busted it.
Cuz when you try to log in, it won't work,
cuz you're not revalidating the root.
And I'm pretty sure that would
be the case most of the time.
I suppose you could break the logout,
and never try to log out.
But why would you not try,
if you change the logout,
you'd probably wanna try the logout.
So I'm pretty sure you would always
know that you busted something.
And hopefully you're testing, so.
>> If you put your console.log
on the first line,
logging gets called three times?
>> Yes, good question.
So you should not rely on this
only being called one time.
This will be called, I actually I'm not
sure why it would be called three times.
But I'm not concerned by the fact that it
is, yeah, I can't answer specifically why.
But yeah, do not rely on this only
being called once per revalidation.
Yeah, it's gonna be, and actually the same
applies for your components as well.
If you log in here,
things like StrictMode, and
various other sundry things are going
to trigger plenty of rerenders.
You don't really need to worry about
that typically in a Remix app,
just thanks to the fact that,
because of nested routing, in particular.
But yeah,
if you were to console.log(useTransition),
that's the main one that's gonna be
triggering all of the rerenders,
is these transitions.
So that could be the reason that our
shouldReload is logged in multiple times.
>> How would we handle it if the user
session could be invalidated by
responses from outer unauthorized routes?
>> Yeah, so I'm pretty sure
the question is about, my data can be
changed by other systems or other users or
something, so how do I know?
Or how do I update the data in the app
when the user is not the one who triggered
the mutation?
So this is, we start getting
into real-time conversations and
stuff like that.
And the easiest way to deal with
that is with server-sent events,
we actually talked about this a little
bit in the React Fundamentals workshop.
But if you look at, yeah, SSE,
there's this demo by Jacob Ebey
that shows how to use
server-sent events with Remix,
and it's really awesome.
If you take a look at this,
which is a resource route,
it has a loader that sends a response,
which is a ReadableStream.
So this keeps the response, or the HTTP
request, open between this browser and
server for an extended, a very long time,
until it's closed, really.
And so
it can continue to send updates over time.
This is only communication between
the server and the client, which for
a lot of use cases is all you need.
The clients don't typically need
to send any more than just an HTTP
request every now and then to the server.
And so then you use the platform,
just the EventSource,
to subscribe to that event and
get updates.
So if that's the sort of thing
that you want to update,
there's nothing built into Remix,
necessarily, for that.
We're just using the platform for this.
The ReadableStream is not a Remix thing,
Response is not a Remix thing,
it's all just platform stuff.
And so you just use those
platform APIs to manage,
like, somebody just updated this data.
I'm gonna go and
tell all the clients that that data has
been updated, they need to revalidate.
So that's how I would do that.